# Estimator Evaluation

## Open Loop Bags
We recorded open loop rosbags of real world experiments, this means the car was controlled using the joystick and the data was recorded. The data includes control inputs as wellas sensor data. This data can then be used to evaluate the performance of the different estimators.

When working with open loop bags you can use the script `eval_open_loop_bags.ipynb` to evaluate the data from the rosbag. This will allow you to e.g. determine the correct initial state of the car such that you can adapt your simulation accordingly. \
We also recommend using this script to determine topics and quality of your recorded data before using it to run simulations with the estimators.

## Simulation Bags
If you ran your experiment in the crs framework it will save the corresponding rosbag file and config settings in `experiments/experiment_<year_month_date>` folder. The rosbag will be given as the file `<time_year_month_date_time>.bag` and the config settings will be given as in the folder `<time>/config`.

When running the script `compare_runs.py`it will assume this folder structure. If you wish to use a different folder structure you can change the `config_path` and `bag_path` variables in the script.
The script is run by executing
```bash
python3 src/scripts/estimator_comparison/compare_runs.py <path_to_rosbag> <name_of_output_file>
```

The script will create a folder `<name_of_output_file>` (in `estimator_comparison/data` )with the subfodlers `bag`, `config`, `data`, `plots` and `results`. \
The `bag` folder will contain the rosbag file renamed to `run.bag` as well as `.csv` files of the relevant topics. \
The `config` folder will contain the config settings. \
The `plots` folder will contain the plots generated by the script. \
The `data` folder will contain the files `estimated.csv` and `gt.csv`. \
The `results` folder will contain the results of the comparison in a `.json` file.

The ground truth data is assumed to be the qualisys measurements and is extracted from the topics `/qualisys/<marker_name>/pose` and `/qualisys/<marker_name>/velocity`. \
The estimated data is assumed to be the output of the estimator and is extracted from the topic `/<car_namespace>/estimation_node/best_state`.

The errors are computed between the estimated and ground truth data and the results are saved in the `results` folder. The results are saved in a `.json` file. \
The plots show the comparison of each state variable of the estimated and ground truth data. The plots are saved in the `plots` folder.

Example:
```bash
python3 src/scripts/estimator_comparison/compare_runs.py /home/sabodmer/crs-2.0/experiments/experiment_2024_03_21/real/20_09_32_2024-03-21-20-09-32.bag test_folder
```

## Jupyter Notebooks
### Track
If you want to plot the track of the car you can use the function `plot_track()` in `plot_track.py`. This will allow you to e.g. plot the trajectory of the car on the track. This function can either be used in python scripts or in jupyter notebooks (e.g. `tunnel.ipynb`). \
Note that you need to have the track as a `.yaml` file in the `src/scripts/estimator_comparison/` folder.

### Estimation Errors
The file `eval_data.py` contains functions to e.g. plot estimation errors as panda tables. \
The notebook `eval_data.ipynb` contains an example of how to use the funcations available in `eval_data.py`.

### Helper Functions
The file `eval_sim.ipynb` contains an example of how to e.g. evaluate the noise on different sensors based on the run simulations using real world data.\
The file `evaluate_rosbag.py` contains functions to e.g. extract the data from a rosbag file and save it as a `.csv` file or resample data. \
The file `interpolate.ipynb` contains an example of how to interpolate data.

## Data
The folder `open_loop_data/open_loop_figure_eight` contains the rosbag and config settings of a figure eight open loop hardware experiment.

## Example
### Check Data
1. Run the script `eval_open_loop_bags.ipynb` to evaluate the data from the rosbag.
2. Update the config settings in the experiment you plan on running (e.g. the intial state of the estimator and simulator).

### Running a Simulation with Rosbag Data
1. Add your `.bag` file to the `bags` folder. Create a new experiment in the `experiments` folder and include all of the config files from your ROS bag file (`estimator.yaml`, `controller.yaml`, etc.).

2. Determine the topics to publish from the ROS bag.
```
rosbag info bags/<bagname>.bag
```

1. Check out the `bags/play.sh` script. This script allows you to set the topics you wish to use from the rosbag. Note that `$2` refers to namespace of the, e.g., car used during the experiment. This will be set in the terminal when running the script. `$1` refers to the bag name you wish to use, and will also be set in the terminal when running the script.

2. Start a ROS master in a terminal attached to the container.

```console
roscore
```

5. In a second, also attached, terminal, make ROS use the time published from the bag.
```console
rosparam set use_sim_time true
```

6. Run the script by navigating to the `bags` folder and execute

```console
./play.sh <bag_name> <namespace>
```
This will start the bag but immediately pause it. By pressing the space bar you can play and pause the bag. \
E.g: `./play.sh myBag.bag car1`

7. In a new terminal attached to the container, run the experiment.

```console
roslaunch crs_launch run_single_bag.launch experiment_name:=<experiment_name>
```

For example, set `namespace:=car1` and `experiment_name:=myBagExperiment`.

### Evaluating the Simulation
1. Run the script `compare_runs.py` as described above. Note that you might need to update the topic names in this script to match the topics you used in the simulation/ rosbag.
2. Run the notebook `eval_data.ipynb` to e.g. plot the estimation and ground truth states.
3. Run any other evaluation scripts you wish to use.
